[13529] Vulcanexus installation from sources in Ubuntu Focal (#9)
eProsima/vulcanexus: docs/rst/installation/linux_source_installation.rst

Get Vulcanexus code
-------------------

Following ROS 2 building instructions, the ROS 2 code has been already downloaded into ``ros2_galactic/src`` folder.
Vulcanexus provides several tools and packages to the ROS 2 distribution that have to be included in the workspace:

.. code-block::

    cd ~
    mv ros2_galactic vulcanexus_galactic
    cd vulcanexus_galactic
    wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/eProsima/vulcanexus/galactic/vulcanexus.repos
    wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/eProsima/vulcanexus/galactic/colcon.meta
    vcs import --force src < vulcanexus.repos

Install Vulcanexus dependencies
-------------------------------

First, follow the `Install dependencies using rosdep <https://docs.ros.org/en/galactic/Installation/Ubuntu-Development-Setup.html#install-dependencies-using-rosdep>`_ section of ROS 2 installation guide.
Then, some additional dependencies which are required for the Vulcanexus distribution must be installed.

> Start by adding the Qt 5.15 repository:

Reviewer: I think we should comment why is this necessary. Actually, the same applies to the binaries installation

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo apt install -y software-properties-common
    sudo add-apt-repository -y ppa:beineri/opt-qt-5.15.2-focal

Next, install the Vulcanexus required development tools:

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo apt update && sudo apt install -y \
      libp11-dev \
      libengine-pkcs11-openssl \
      libyaml-cpp-dev \
      openjdk-8-jdk \
      qt5-default \
      qt5153d \
      qt515charts-no-lgpl \
      qt515graphicaleffects \
      qt515quickcontrols \
      qt515quickcontrols2 \
      qt515quicktimeline-no-lgpl \
      qt515svg \
      qt515tools \
      qt515translations \
      swig

Build the code in the workspace
-------------------------------

> If any other Vulcanexus or ROS 2 distribution have been installed from binaries, please ensure that the build is done in a fresh environment (previous installation is not sourced).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If any other Vulcanexus or ROS 2 distribution has been installed from binaries, please ensure that the build is done in a fresh environment (previous installation is not sourced).
```

This can be checked running the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    printenv | grep 'VULCANEXUS\|ROS'

The output should be empty.

> Please, be aware that in case you have added the environment sourcing to your ``.bashrc``, you must remove it in order to get a fresh environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please, be aware that in case the environment sourcing has been added to ``.bashrc``, it must removed it in order to get a fresh environment.
```

> Build Fast DDS-Gen

Reviewer: I'd annotate somewhere that this step is optional

This tool must be built separately following the instructions below.
Please, refer to `Fast DDS-Gen documentation <https://fast-dds.docs.eprosima.com/en/latest/fastddsgen/introduction/introduction.html>`_ for more information about this tool.

.. code-block:: bash

    cd src/eProsima/fastddsgen
    ./gradlew assemble

The generated Java application can be found in ``share/fastddsgen``.
However, the ``scripts`` folder provides some user friendly scripts that are recommended to be used.
This scripts can be made accessible to the session adding the ``scripts`` folder path to the ``PATH`` environment variable.

.. code-block:: bash

    export PATH=~/vulcanexus_galactic/src/eProsima/fastddsgen/scripts:$PATH

Build workspace
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In order to build the workspace, the command line tool `colcon <https://colcon.readthedocs.io/en/released/>`_ is used.
This tool is based on `CMake <https://cmake.org/>`_ and it is aimed at building sets of software packages, handling ordering and setting up the environment to use them.

.. code-block:: bash

    cd ~/vulcanexus_galactic
    colcon build

.. important::

>     In case that only a set of packages are going to be built, please ensure to include always ``vulcanexus_base`` package in the set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In case that only a set of packages are going to be built, please ensure to include always ``vulcanexus_base`` package in the set.
    E.g.:
    `colcon build --packages-up-to demo_nodes_cpp vulcanexus_base`
```

>     This auxiliary package is required to set several environment variables required by the distribution such as ``VULCANEXUS_DISTRO``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This auxiliary package is required to set several environment variables required by the distribution such as ``VULCANEXUS_DISTRO`` and ``VULCANEXUS_HOME``. 
```
